to solve this problem we can make use of binary
search algorithm here and make some changes to it in
binary
Search algorithm
We will maintain 2 Indices start and end to mark
the first and last elements in the array in each iteration
we will compare the middle element with the key and
discard one half of the array this we do by adjusting
the start or end index
If the element is already present in the array the binary
search algorithm will return the index of the element
Let us see how to find appropriate insert position for
the new element so that given array remains sorted
let us take this array arr
And integer 20 let us search for integer
20 in this array in the first iteration start is zero
and end is four So mid will be zero plus
four divided by two which is equal to two array
of two is 25 25 is greater than 20 as
this array sorted 20 can only be present before 25
So we will set end as mid minus one That
is two minus one which is equal to one now
start is zero and end is one so Mid will be
equal to zero
An array of zero is 14 and 14 is less
than 20
Thus we will set start as mid plus one that
is one now
Both start and end is one hence mid will also
be one an array of mid is 17 which is less
than 20
So we will again move start to mid plus one
that is two now start is greater than end so
the addression will end here
The end index is now pointing to 17 which is
that near a smaller number to 20
If we insert 20 next to 17 the array will
remain sorted
That's the right insert position is and plus one.